MEETING WITH HANS AND EVELYNN ABOUT OUR PRESENTATION (by Thomas ðŸ˜Ž)
Slide number:
1. Title is not conclusive, will meet over the weekend to figure it out.
2. Background
3. Cool animations
4. Research Q.
5. Background for research q. One thing we should emphasize is that sociodemographic metadata are not looked at it, and we should work to humanize these factors. Highlight the fact that there is a lack of research between the gut microbiome and human factors. 
6. Hypothesis
7. Aim 1 --> p-value table. There is one significiant comparison in Pielou's evenness between age and the gut microbiota in HIV+ patients. The difference is not big, and FDR has not been done. For the paper, use p-values instead of colors. Color the p-values or add a opaque background fill to the cell (binary yes or no is okay, no need gradient). Evenlynn inquires about education. Maybe we should clarify the bins (primary, secondary, tertiary) and what they mean. Hans mentions that the colon is probably a bad way of listing the factors, instead use "Labor vs Non-labor" instead of "Labor: Non-labor". Evenlynn says she wouldn't dig into it, difference is too small.
8. Hidden
9. Hidden
10. Aim 2 core microbiome analysis. The p-values are very small (nvm fixed!). The numbers are "species in common". Evelynn inquires about the threshold and deduces that it is 0. Keep adjusting it so it's more stringent than 0. Hans says prevalence 0.1 is still too low (not meaningful). All 3 sociodemographic factors have more shared than unique. Interesting that folks who go completed tertiary education have less shared microbiome compared to secondary & primary. Align the labels verticall & horizontally.
11. ISA for education. Data aligns with core microbiome. Hans and Evelynn have beef. This almost suggest that people who completed tertiary education have long-term microbiome effects, but not necessarily a bad thing (despite the presence of Negativibacillus species). This is devolving into a commentary on diet and university life. Does university education correlate with a worsening diet? Stay tuned! Acknowledge thaat ISA = 0.53 is not great. All species listed are pathogenic. The moral of the story is don't go to college.
12. ISA for labor and age. For labor there is only one and it is sad (ISA = 0.58). For age, 5 for >45, 4 < 45. All ISA values are sad (only one is close to 0.7). Remove ones below 0.5 (purge the heretics âš”ï¸âš”!). Evelynn is trying to push her agenda of teritary being bad for our microbiome.  
