
# LN03 - Taxonomic Analysis

Macrh 1st, 2025

## Purpose:
To determine the taxonomic groups to which the ASVs correspond to, and to generate a taxonomy bar plot that illustrates the relative frequency of each taxonomic group. To perform taxonomy-based filtering and remove any mitochondria or chloroplast sequences.

## Material: 
1. QIIME2 
2. 243-rep_seqs.qzv (/HIV)
3. hiv_metadata.tsv (/mnt/datasets/project_2/hiv/hiv_metadata.tsv)
4. silva-138-99-515-806-nb-classifier.qza (/mnt/datasets/classifiers)
3. 243_table.qza (/HIV)



## Method:
1. Connect to Cisco Anyconnect Secure VPN. Open the terminal and login to MICB 475 class server using the provided login credentials.
2. Create a detached screen and name it "taxonomic analysis". 
3. Align the database.
4. Visualize the taxonomy by converting qza files to qzv.
5. Generate the taxonomy bar plot.
6. Transfer the taxonomy and taxonomy bar plot visualization files to local computer and view the taxon using view.QIIME2.org.
7. If mitochondria or chloroplast taxons are present, perform taxonomic-based filtering to remove these sequences and generate a new table.
8. Summarize the table without mitochondria and chloroplast.
9. Visualize the table without mitochondria and chloroplast by converting qza file to qzv.
10. Transfer the table without mitochondria and chloroplast to local computer and view the table using view.QIIME2.org.

## Our team work:
#Export to RStudio

#export taxonomy
qiime tools export \
--input-path /HIV/243_taxonomy.qza \
--output-path taxonomy_export 

#export feature-table.txt
qiime tools export \
--input-path /HIV/243_table.qza \
--output-path table_export 

#export rooted tree 
qiime tools export \
--input-path /HIV/243_rooted-tree.qza \
--output-path rooted_tree_expor

### Determine ASVs with DADA2



   
## Code: 
*QIIME2-Analysis/QIIME2-Data-Processing-Script.R
## Output files:
Files are saved on Team OneDrive server or [GitHub](/QIIME2-Analysis/Qiime-output-files)



   
## Results: 
* Taxonomic analysis was completed

## Discussion:
* Materials are now ready to make phyloseq object and move onto aim 1
